# Requirement for tiktokfood

## 1. INTRODUCTION
The purpose of this document is to build an online system to manage  the ordering and delivery of food and restaurants .

### a. Intended audience

This project is a web application for the food ordering and delivery system  and it is restricted within the college premises. This has been implemented under the guidance of professors from the Kigali Independant University . This project is an usefull open source interface for food ordering and delivery .

### b. Project scope
The purpose of the online food ordering and delivery system is to ease food ordering and delivery and to create a convenient and easy-to-use application for restaurant to advertise themselve and for customer a wat to have access to a range of options througt the click of a button. The system is based on a API made with the django web framework wich made easy  migration and update for the relations in the database and access to a range of oder module that will make easy the integration of geolocalisation, data analysis web scraping etc. Above all, we hope to provide a comfortable user experience along with the best pricing available.

## 2. OVERALL DESCRIPTION

### a. Product perspective

A food delivery system give access to the following services:

* Customer perspective : User can register on the  application and order food from local establishment. They can see event organized from establishment near them and partage their experience through comments and ratting.

* Restaurant perspective : A user of the site can create a restaurant profil and advertise the product and potential evenment that will happen. The platform allow the restaurant to receive notification when order are made and it give him access to valuable data for descision making.

* Delivery perspective : A user can register as a delivery agent and will receive alert when needed .

### b. Product features

* Secure API

* Login / Authentification .
 
* Private chat between user .

* Dynamic user interface .

* Relational database .

* Geolocalisation / Tracking .

* Data analysis .

### c. Product Functionalities.

Users of the system should be able to get information about the restaurant in their geographycal area. The user should be able to create a delivery profile or a restaurant profile he can than add user to the restaurant profile administration. The system will support three types of user privileges, Customer,Delivery Agent and Administrator . Customers will have access to customer functions, Delivery agent will have access to customer function and delivery function and Administrator will have administrative function on a page.

* Customer function: 
    * Can login , logout , delete his account .
    * get information about restaurant near them .
    * can excecute research .
    * can order food at a restaurant .
    * Can check the status of order he has made.
    * can rate a restaurant .
    * can leave comment on restaurant profile page .
    * Have custom user profile page .
        * Can set some information about himself on his profile .
    * Can create a restaurant profile page .
    * Can set his user profile as delivery agent .

* Delivery Agent function :
    * Has the customer capacity 
    * Has his location tracked by server
    * Receive notification when order are needed .

* Administrator function : 
    * Has customer capacity 
    * Receive notification when order are made .
    * Can update order status . 
    * Can update information about restaurant profile .
    * Can add / remove /update product and event to the restaurant .
    * Have access to a analytic page for data vizualisation about customer .
    
### d. Operating Environment.
The operating environment for the food delivery system is as listed below :

* A relational database .

* A server for backend with django web framework 

* A server for the frontend with Vuejs 

* A browser for the client 

### e. Design And Implementation Constrain.

1. Implement authentification for the API

2. Add security to the server 

3. Having access to online payment 

### f. Assumption Dependencies.
Let us assume that this is a food delivery system and it is used in the following application:

* User make request to the API to search restaurant, food and evenement near his location , the response is than displayed on the user interface .

* Data such as gelocalisation , authentification token are generated by the servers and sended with each request .

## 3. SYSTEM FEATURES

### a. Description and Priority

The food delivery system maintains information on restaurant, food and evenement, status of order customer commentaries and ratting . Of course, this project has a high priority because it is very difficult to implement a quality system that make the process of food ordering easy.

### b. Stimilus/Response Sequence

* Get data about the restaurant and event near .

* Display liste of available food , evenemnt .

*  Make order request .

* Send notification of order .

* Can make request to modify order .
